# Advanced Options for Model Packages and Containers

## Advanced model configuration

Model packages include example scripts that provide an easy way to get started
with various use cases such as running batch inference, getting accuracy metrics,
or training a model. These script typically have options to configure a path for
the dataset and an output directory. More advance control to change parameters
like the model's batch size or the number of steps will require calling the
`launch_benchmark.py` script directly. See the
[launch benchmarks documentation](LaunchBenchmark.md) for information on
the available arguments.

Below are instructions for calling the `launch_benchmark.py` script with
bare metal and docker.

### Bare metal

Download and untar the model package, then call the `launch_benchmarks.py`
script in the benchmarks folder. The example below is showing how to do
this with the ResNet50 FP32 inference package, but the same process
can be used with other model packages.

```
DATASET_DIR=<path to the preprocessed imagenet dataset>
OUTPUT_DIR=<directory where log files will be written>

wget https://ubit-artifactory-or.intel.com/artifactory/list/cicd-or-local/model-zoo/resnet50-fp32-inference.tar.gz
tar -xzf resnet50_fp32_inference.tar.gz

cd resnet50_fp32_inference/benchmarks

python launch_benchmark.py \
  --model-name=resnet50 \
  --precision=fp32 \
  --mode=inference \
  --framework tensorflow \
  --in-graph ../resnet50_fp32_pretrained_model.pb \
  --data-location=${DATASET_DIR} \
  --output-dir ${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --batch-size=128 \
  --socket-id 0
```

### Docker

Running the `launch_benchmarks.py` command in docker is similar to running
the quickstart scripts, where volume mounts and environment variables are set to
for the dataset and output directories. However, instead of having the
container execute the quickstart script, have it call
`python benchmarks/launch_benchmark.py` with your desired arguments. The
snippet below is showing how to do this using the ResNet50 FP32 inference
container, but the same process can be followed for other model usages by
swapping in the appropriate docker image/tag for your model.

```
DATASET_DIR=<path to the preprocessed imagenet dataset>
OUTPUT_DIR=<directory where log files will be written>

docker run \
  --volume ${DATASET_DIR}:${DATASET_DIR} \
  --volume ${OUTPUT_DIR}:${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --env http_proxy=${http_proxy} \
  --env https_proxy=${https_proxy} \
  --privileged --init -t \
  amr-registry.caas.intel.com/aipg-tf/model-zoo:2.1.0-resnet50-fp32-inference \
  python benchmarks/launch_benchmark.py \
    --model-name resnet50 \
    --precision fp32 \
    --mode inference \
    --batch-size=128 \
    --socket-id 0 \
    --framework tensorflow \
    --output-dir {OUTPUT_DIR} \
    --in-graph resnet50_fp32_pretrained_model.pb \
    --data-location ${DATASET_DIR}
```

## Mounting local model packages in docker

A download of the model package can be run in a docker container by mounting the
model package to a directory a use case category
container (such as the category containers for image recognition, object
detection, etc). The category containers include library installs and
dependencies needed to run the model, but they do not have the model
package. This method of mounting the model package in the category
container allows you to locally make edits to the model package, but still
run the model using docker.

The example below shows the process of downloading and untarring the
model package and then using docker to mount directories for the dataset,
output, and the model package, and running a quickstart script. The model
package is being mounted to the `/workspace` directory in this example.
Note that this example is using ResNet50 FP32 inference, but the same
process can be used with other models by downloading a different model
package and using the category container that is approriate for that
model.

<pre>
DATASET_DIR=&lt;path to the preprocessed imagenet dataset&gt;
OUTPUT_DIR=&lt;directory where log files will be written&gt;

wget https://ubit-artifactory-or.intel.com/artifactory/list/cicd-or-local/model-zoo/resnet50-fp32-inference.tar.gz
tar -xzf resnet50_fp32_inference.tar.gz

docker run \
  --env DATASET_DIR=${DATASET_DIR} \
  --env OUTPUT_DIR=${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --env http_proxy=${http_proxy} \
  --env https_proxy=${https_proxy} \
  <mark><b>--volume resnet50_fp32_inference:/workspace</b></mark> \
  --volume ${DATASET_DIR}:${DATASET_DIR} \
  --volume ${OUTPUT_DIR}:${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --privileged --init -w /workspace -t \
  <mark><b>amr-registry.caas.intel.com/aipg-tf/model-zoo:2.1.0-resnet50-fp32-inference</b></mark> \
  /bin/bash /workspace/quickstart/&lt;script name&gt;.sh
</pre>

## Running as the host user within the docker container

Often running as root within the container is not desired since any output generated by the model 
that is mounted on the host filesystem will be owned by root. This, in turn, requires the user to 
have sudo privileges on the host in order to remove, move or edit these files. By passing in the 
following env variables shown below, the user can run the model with their uid:gid permissions being passed into the container.

<pre>
DATASET_DIR=&lt;path to the preprocessed imagenet dataset&gt;
OUTPUT_DIR=&lt;directory where log files will be written&gt;

wget https://ubit-artifactory-or.intel.com/artifactory/list/cicd-or-local/model-zoo/resnet50-fp32-inference.tar.gz
tar -xzf resnet50_fp32_inference.tar.gz

docker run \
  <mark><b>--env USER_NAME=$(id -nu)</b></mark> \
  <mark><b>--env USER_ID=$(id -u)</b></mark> \
  <mark><b>--env GROUP_NAME=$(id -ng)</b></mark> \
  <mark><b>--env GROUP_ID=$(id -g)</b></mark> \
  --env DATASET_DIR=${DATASET_DIR} \
  --env OUTPUT_DIR=${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --env http_proxy=${http_proxy} \
  --env https_proxy=${https_proxy} \
  <mark><b>--volume resnet50_fp32_inference:/workspace</b></mark> \
  --volume ${DATASET_DIR}:${DATASET_DIR} \
  --volume ${OUTPUT_DIR}:${OUTPUT_DIR} \
  --privileged --init -w /workspace -t \
  <mark><b>amr-registry.caas.intel.com/aipg-tf/model-zoo:2.1.0-resnet50-fp32-inference</b></mark> \
  /bin/bash /workspace/quickstart/&lt;script name&gt;.sh
</pre>
